now realize were really important?
Oh, I think all of them was.
I think engineering courses teach you to think.
And I enjoyed them.
Some of them was pretty rough.
Civil engineering, which I enjoyed very much.
Now, did you think you were going to be in the petroleum business when you got through?
Yes, sir.
I sure did.
And my brother that helped me through college, he had hoped I'd get in the petroleum business.
He was in the automobile business.
And he told me that when I got through that he wanted me to go to work for an oil company and work a few years, and then he wanted to put me in the oil business.
Well, when I got back from overseas, I went to every major oil company.
And all of them had more engineers in service than they thought they was going to have to take back.
There wasn't any chance.
Finally, I got an offer from Pan American.
in Raymondville, Texas.
And my brother had been in the Valley for about nine years previous to that.
And I asked him, I said, what about Raymondville?
He said, Raymondville is 85% Latin American and 5% Afro-American and the rest of them white.
And I said, well, I don't believe I wanted to go.
So I didn't take a job with the Cold Dominion business.
And I found a place in Madisonville, Texas, an automobile supply house that was for sale.
And I bought it with the help from my brother.
And I stayed there three years.
And after three years, I was barely just making a living.
And he was the dealer in Houston for Knapp Chevrolet.
Knapp didn't have anybody by the name of Knapp in Houston.
My brother had put in the dealership Farnap in 1940.
And he said, you can come work for me.
And I went to work for him for $300 a month, which at that time was a big salary.
And I went there in November of 48.
April the 1st of 49, my older brother, my brother just older than I and myself bought out Pollard Chevrolet in Houston.
And that's where I got in really in the automobile business.
So a little more than 50 years now.
Yes, sir.
Oh, that's good.
Let's see.
Back before the war, can you share with this machine any pranks, jokes, good bull that you remember any of the students doing when you were at A&M?
Yes, sir.
My battery, battery D, we followed a fake...
murder.
We had two boys, an upperclassman that kind of, they made like they was mad at one another, all the drills and all, and so Charlie Kirkpatrick, who I cleaned up his room, and a fellow from Dallas, they got in a scrabble and then Charlie supposed to have killed him
And they called us up and he was laying in the shower with ketchup all over him.
It looked like it.
And they sent us all and they made us all go up to our room and stay in the room, wouldn't let us out.
And then we had a fish sergeant by the name of Frank Nice.
And Frank was supposed to guard everybody.
And...
Oh, after about three or four hours, well, Kirk Patrick walked in Nice's room, and when he did, Nice took out through the window.
Went through screen, window and all, went up to the steps of the YMCA.
So he fell for it?
All of us fell for it.
We all thought it was real.
And they pulled out again.
Oh, I guess it was my...
Junior or senior year, I believe it was my junior year, we pulled it again.
Did anybody ever try to play any pranks on a teacher in class?
Not that I know of.
As far as you understood it, what were the expected behavior rules when you were in class?
You behaved.
There wasn't any talking or anything.
We had to behave in class.
There wasn't any cut up in class.
And you went regularly.
Did anybody ever go to sleep in class?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
What would the teachers do then?
Well, the only place I ever saw anybody sleeping in class was in lectures.
Did anybody ever give another student a hot foot?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's common.
And was Reveille around at that time?
Yes, Reveille was the first Reveille at that time.
And she stayed around Puryear Hall a lot.
And she come in my room a lot.
And I kind of keep my door closed because if she got on the bed, you didn't get on the bed.
You had to leave her on the bed.
If Reveille got on your bed, where did you sleep then?
I slept on the floor.
Describe that first Reveille.
Well, she's just a little old black dog.
I call her a common dog.
She hated the black people.
When the Afro-Americans come through the campus, man, she was raised then.
And then when we was out drilling, if we had somebody absent and that spot was vacant, she'd get in a part in March with you.
And did that Reveille, did she live through your years at A&M?
Yes, sir.
And who took care of Reveille in those days?
Oh.
Was there a?
There wasn't, as far as I know, anybody.
And she just roamed the campus.
She had free access to the campus.
And was allowed in the dining hall?
No, sir, I don't know.
I was in Sebesa Hall.
Did she go to football games?
Yes, sir.
Home games.
Let's see.
The YMCA, what role did it play in your life as an Aggie?
Well.
What all happened at the Y?
Of course the bowling alley was in the Y and the pool all was in the Y.
Was it okay for a boy from Kirbyville to shoot poo?
Yes, sir.
I don't know if I shot any of my freshman year, but after that it was.
And were there some religious activities at the Y?
Yes, sir, a few.
Did you participate in any Sunday church going?
No, sir.
Let's see, no, the MS, oh, if you got sick, where did you go?
I had a hospital.
And who was the doctor?
Dr. Marsh?
Dr. Marsh, I'll never forget him.
My freshman year, after the basketball season, just to start the baseball season, I played softball.
I was a catcher in softball.
And we was playing out on the drill field, and a batter hit a little old pop foul, and I run after it, and the pitcher run after it, and his knee hit my jaw and broke my jaw.
And I went back to the dorm at night, and the CQ come around about 2 o'clock in the morning.
Well, I first went to the hospital, and the hospital, Dr. Morris x-rayed my jaw and said, there's nothing wrong with it.
Go on back.
I went on back to the dorm.
About 2 o'clock that morning, the CQ come around, and I was still awake.
He says, Fisherist, what you doing awake?
I said, I'm hurting.
He says, what's the matter?
And I told him.
He said, we're going back to the hospital right now.
He carried me to the hospital.
Dr. Morris x-rayed my jaw again.
He said, nothing wrong with it.
The technician that was having him, he says, doctor, that boy's jaw is broke.
Oh, you don't know what you're talking about.
He says, take another picture.
He took another picture.
and my jaw bone was broke and a V over a tooth.
And so I went on back to the dorm and the next morning my daddy had a cousin who was a medical doctor in Bryan, Dr. Richardson, and he called him and I went in to see him and he sent me to Dr. Lamar Smith, a dentist, and the dentist
Looked at me and he said, come back, I believe, I believe.
I went back that Saturday, Sunday afternoon.
Anyway, he had me in the dental chair and he said, close your mouth.
I worked on my teeth a while and after a while he said, close your mouth.
I closed my mouth and then I said, Bronco, I can't open it.
He said, it's going to be six weeks before you open that mouth again.
He had wired my jaws together.
And thank goodness I had a tooth out, a jaw tooth out, and I was able to take malted milk and soup through that place where the tooth was out.
And I got along pretty good.
Now, while your jaw was wired together, did you march?
Yes, sir.
I sure did.
And when the final drill came, see, that was almost the end of the season.
And when the final drill come, I went to the doctor and asked him for a permit not to have to do final drill.
He says, Richon, I'll give you the best bed in the hotel or a glass of milk on the way out, but I won't give him the exemption.
So I went back to my company commander, and he says, you just skip drill.
You don't have to drill.
So I didn't make the final drill that year.
All right.
That first year, you went home for the first time at Thanksgiving.
Thanksgiving.
Then again at Christmas.
Then at Christmas.
Then when?
Did you go home in spring?
Yes, sir.
And that was all.
That was all.
And hitchhiking.
Hitchhiking.
And I went to summer school.
At A&M?
Yes, sir.
So I was away from home all that year.
Now, in summer school in those days, were women allowed?
Were there girls in summer school?
There was factory members' daughters and teachers that...
that already finished college and was teaching, they'd come back and take a course, yes.
But you didn't have to wear uniforms in the summer or did you?
No, sir.
Didn't have to wear.
Lived in the dorm.
Yes, sir.
Do you have any idea what that freshman year cost?
Do you remember what the tuition or the fees were?
Oh, I forgot how much the tuition was.
My room and board was about $32 a month.
And you said you had a job beginning almost the first day?
No, six weeks or so.
When did you do those chores?
Setting the pins, there was some after-time classes was out to about CQ that night, which was, oh, 7 o'clock or something.
Okay.
And then that second job?
Taking up cleaning and pression, I just went around the dorm team.
In my company, I only took up cleaning and pression in Lattery D. Do you remember what Hollicks paid you for that?
No, sir.
I don't remember.
Describe Mr. Hollick.
Well, he was, I don't know, Mr. Honick, I didn't see him too much.
I saw him as his manager.
Oh, okay.
And they were there at the corner at Northgate?
What else was there at Northgate then?
Well, there was a drugstore on the corner, and then A.M.
Waldrop was there.
Was old Army Lou there?
No, I don't remember him having a store there at that time.
Then there was the Lily ice cream store, I will remember it.
Did you go to the... Yes, sir.
What was your favorite dish?
Vanilla ice cream.
Was the campus theater there yet?
The old campus theater was there, which was tore down, well it was tore down I guess while I was there.
It was, that was a peanut throwing theater.
In other words, we all bought peanuts and then threw, that's where we threw peanuts at the upperclassmen.
When, oh, when the lights went off.
Yeah.
Did y'all make noise while the movie was going on sometimes?
While sometimes, not very often.
Now, then Guyon Hall, did it have movies regularly?
Last part of my, it wasn't there when I first went there.
Oh, Guyon was not?
No.
When was it built?
Oh, I'd say it was built in, I can't say the date.
I built in the late 30s, early 40s.
Oh, okay.
Let's see.
Guyon, your freshman year,
Did you ever think about dropping out of school, quitting?
No, sir.
Never did.
And you never did think about transferring.
No, sir.
You were you were always proud to be an Aggie.
What was it as a fish that made you started making you proud to be at A&M?
Well, one of the things I didn't have any money and I didn't know nobody knew in the Corps
who had money and who didn't.
We was all just alike.
Now when we went on a court trip, of course, some of them had money and some of us didn't.
But as far as on the campus, nobody knew who had, whether they had money or not.
Did it matter if you were a Baptist or a Catholic or?
No, sir.
What about where you came from, whether you were from the small town or the country or the big city?
Well,
In my company, the boys and daddies had a kind of little clique.
They kind of favored one another.
Did you all ever play any tricks on them?
No, sir.
There's too many of them.
Oh.
What about the religious activities around the campus?
Were there some... Well, of course, they built a little church
Well, it was built after I finished.
See, it was almost where the old theater was, not right next to it.
Oh, the chapel, the little chapel.
Yes, sir.
Did the Aggies go to church much on Sunday?
I was a Baptist.
I went to the Baptist church, which is at Northgate.
Did you go on Sunday night some?
No.
I was going to ask if they had Sunday night supper or anything like that.
Did you have any dates when you were a freshman?
I didn't, no sir.
Did you go to any of the dances?
Very few, very few.
I'm not a dancer.
Now the faculty lived, many of the faculty lived on campus.
Around the campus, yes sir.
Did they ever invite you students to their home?
Well, I was invited to a math teacher, I forget his name.
He was an uncle of one of the boys from Jasper, Texas.
That's the only one I ever visited.
Your first year, do you remember going to your first midnight Yale practice?
Or do you remember?
Yes, I remember.
Describe.
Well, we all had to go and we all had to hump.
It was held on the YMCA steps at that time.
was it held at near was it late it was held at midnight it was yes did y'all play any games or do any tricks no sir and everybody went everybody went describe going to a home football game what time what what time did y'all start heading toward the stadium oh
I don't know, about an hour before game time.
Did you march in?
Was there a review?
Sometimes we did, sometimes we didn't.
And you stood up?
Yes, sir.
We stood up the whole game.
Were there many dates in the... Yes, sir.
Well, I didn't have any dates, but a lot of the students had dates.
And you went on a court trip.
Yes, sir.
Describe going on an Aggie court trip in the 30s.
Well, first one I went on was on Fort Worth.
And...
I lost my raincoat, trench coat.
But I got it back.
How did that happen?
I don't know.
They sent it back to somebody.
I had our names and all of them.
Somebody sent it back to me.
My, my.
How did you get up there?
I hit site.
And did you come back after the game or did you spend the night?
No, I spent one night.
Where?
In the... Oh...
Old, old hotel.
There was a boy there from Kirbyville that had a room.
He wasn't in that Aggie.
Oh.
And I spent the night with him.
Okay.
And then the other court trip would have been to Houston or to Austin?
We went to Waco.
Okay.
Not only about a freshman year.
I don't know.
You went back too many years now.
I can't even remember all that.
Of all of the court trips you remember, which one was your favorite?
Was there any one that you really enjoyed?
I enjoyed them all.
No special one.
And you made court trips to Austin?
Yes, sir.
How were Aggies treated in those cities?
I was always treated nice.
I was never treated bad.
And I know of any place that they were treated bad.
That first year, did you work on bonfire?
I guarded the bonfire.
It was right out my dorm.
On the drill field.
I had to guard it at night, shifts at night.
About how long did they gather stuff for the bonfire?
Oh, 30 days.
And what was in the bonfire?
What did they burn?
Just old scrap lumber that they could find anywhere, trash, and then we got an outhouse and put on top of it.
Where did the outhouse come from?
It come from somebody's home.
Now, I've heard that the college would pay that family for the new outhouse.
Did you ever hear that?
No, sir.
I've wondered if that is true.
I don't know.
I never heard that.
And I understand that sometimes they would get those little carts over at the railroad station and put the trash on that to roll it over.
And all right, then other Silver Taps.
Do you remember going to Silver Taps?
Yes, sir.
Describe that.
It was something new to me.
It kind of got to me.
Did you all take it seriously?
Yes, sir.
Very seriously.
And everybody went?
Everybody went.
Yes, sir.
All right.
Let's move on then to final review.
Do you remember what that was like your first year, two or three years?
I missed it.
Oh.
I told you.
That's when my jaw was broken.
Oh, that's right.
That's right.
I missed it.
All right.
The rest of them, it was hot.
So you stayed there that first summer and went to summer school at A&M, and then your sophomore year, and you said you'd had some grade troubles your freshman year.
Did you have any grade troubles after that?
With English.
It continued to be a problem.
And then end of my sophomore year,
I got a job with the state forestry.
Oh.
Which had a, they had a forestry at Kirbyville, E.O.
Seeky State Park.
And old man Seeky gave me a job and I worked there.
What'd you do?
I was a caretaker.
They had rented out the, it was an old CC camp.
And they rented it out for camps, girl camps and such as that.
So you began to accumulate a little more money.
Yes, sir.
Now, did your parents help pay for, or did you earn all of your college money?
My parents didn't pay for any.
They were not able.
All right, so your older brother.
Older brother and what I earned.
And did you have a job your second, third, fourth years?
Yes, sir, these that I mentioned.
About how many, was it unusual for a student to have a job, or did many students have jobs?
A lot of students had jobs.
You mentioned wealth.
Were there any Aggies in your day that everybody knew was rich?
Well, we had one.
I was in Perrier, which was a coastal artillery.
Calvary was in law.
There was one student in law hall that we all knew had money because he had a car and he had more than one set of boots.
About how many students had cars?
Well, that's hard to predict.
I'd say maybe 40 or 50.
Did anybody in your outfit have a car?
No, sir.
Not that I know of.
Do you remember how many of your freshmen came back as sophomores?
How many survived?
I think we all came back except about five.
Oh, that's good.
That's good.
The extracurricular groups then, the band, what did you and your buddies think about the Aggie band?
Oh, we liked them here.
Did you all make fun of them and tease them?
No, sir.
We didn't.
Were the singing cadets going then?
Yes, sir.
uh and uh if if uh you what were the high prestige positions for a student if you could have been anything ross volunteers i was not a ross volunteer but that was
And the highest student position was to be corps commander?
Yes, sir.
And you all respected then.
Did you ever hear anything about secret fraternities when you were a student?
No, sir.
I haven't run into anybody that did.
What about Yale leader?
Was that an honor?
That was an honor, yes, sir.
Did y'all ever play tricks on the Yale leaders?
I didn't.
All right, so let's go up now.
When the war started in Europe in 1939, did you and your buddies begin to talk about what it might mean to you?
Just because we all had to register back at home, you know, and had our number.
Your draft number?
Draft number.
But you got a deferment because you were at A&M.
Yeah, I had my commission, and I got a year's deferment, and it almost lasted a year.
It didn't quite last a year.
Do you remember, describe please, if you can, your memory of how you heard the news on December 7th, 1941.
I was living in Milner Hall at that time.
And I heard it that morning.
Where were you?
In the dorm?
Yes, sir.
Did somebody come down the hallway?
No, on the radio.
Did you turn your radio on and listen?
Yes, sir.
What did you all think that might mean?
Well, we knew what it meant.
We were going to be called in service because all my class had already, when they finished, they went in, the ones that took a four-year course.
Mm-hmm.
And you were still in the Coast Artillery.
Did everything, did the whole Corps get more serious after that?
Well.
I don't know much about the Corps.
I wasn't there.
Oh, you were not in the Corps that fifth year?
No.
Oh, I see.
Oh, okay.
What was it like going through Final Review your fourth year?
Oh, well, we was all proud.
We all had our boots and we was all proud.
How much did your boots cost?
I think mine cost $65.
Were they new?
Yes, sir.
I still got them.
And you bought them at?
Hollicks.
And so they were tailor-made for you.
What went in your heart when you put on those boots the first time?
Well, I remember the first time I went home with them, when the first time I went home with them,
I couldn't get them off and had to get my daddy to help me.
And my daddy, when he'd been over and I put my leg between his and pushed on him, he said, son, I did show them boots.
And by then you had your ring.
Yes, sir.
How much did it cost?
I don't remember.
Do you have any ring stories?
Have you ever lost it?
Yes, sir.
I lost one in Europe.
That's my second one, and it's about wore out.
How did you lose it?
Do you know?
I don't know.
If I knew where I lost it, I wouldn't got it.
Do you have about where were you?
Africa.
In Africa?
And so you got this one after you got back?
After I got back, yes, sir.
Have you ever had anybody in some interesting places notice it, recognize that it's an Aggie ring?
Oh, yeah, all the time.
Of course, I recognize this more than I do that.
There you go.
What are you going to do with that ring?
What do you want done with it?
I don't know.
I'm going to leave that up to my wife, if she's still living.
Okay.
All right.
I'd be glad to give it to the university if they wound it, but I mean, they got several 41 rings.
See, among the things that's happening with young people today, except at schools like A&M, is nobody's wearing a ring anymore.
that the average school, the kids don't wear rings.
But that to me is one of the key parts of A&M pride is that the students today are as proud to wear the Aggie ring as you and your classmates were.
Oh, I look forward to it.
I've had...
I've had three grandchildren finish A&M.
There you go.
Very proud when they finish.
Let's see.
The project houses were there when you were a student.
Yes, sir.
Describe them and the students as far as you know.
I know much about them because I never did live in one.
Those were the poor boys.
Could you have lived in a project house as far as you know if you had tried?
Kirbyville had a chance.
I thought I was going to have to live in one my freshman year.
I got in the dorm just before school started.
I was one of the last ones that they accepted in the dorms.
Did you ever have a date while you were an undergraduate?
Yes sir.
How did you get that date?
I was a hometown girl.
And how did she get over to College Station?
At that time I had a boy from A&M and had a car and he brought her.
And where did she stay?
I don't remember which dorm, but they evacuated the dorm and let the girls stay in the dorm.
And do you remember what she came for?
Was it a dance?
Oh, it was a football game.
And did Aggies kiss their dates then at football games?
Yes, sir.
How did Aggies treat young women then?
I think they treated them very nice.
And at the dances?
Well, I didn't attend many dances.
Oh, that's right.
You said you weren't a dancer.
I'm not a dancer.
Then this young Kirbyville lady, did you see her again?
Oh, yeah.
I dated until I went into service.
I was married while I was in service.
Uh-oh.
Was Pinky Downs around in those?
Yes, sir.
Describe Pinky.
Well, I never didn't know Pinky too well, but he was there.
And he was... He knew about it.
And he circulated around... Oh, yeah.
How often did you go to Bryan?
Didn't ever go.
Maybe one time a semester.
Was Uncle Ed's inexistent then, hard liquors?
Yes, sir, but I didn't go because I didn't drink.
And that was a place where Aggies went to drink beer, though?
Yes, sir.
Was Whiskey Bridge already?
Could you go across towards Snook and buy whiskey then?
I don't know.
I didn't.
You were, being a Baptist, you weren't a drinker?
I wasn't a drinker.
Did you ever hear any talk about a bootlegger?
Nobody's ever told me about a bootlegger.
No, sir.
I don't know of anyone.